Improve the definition of "transform" in the vignettes (#1489)
insightsengineering/teal: vignettes/transform-module-output.Rmd

<img src="images/teal-transform-module-decorators.svg" alt="Transforming teal_data" style="width: 100%;" />

In this vignette we will focus on using the `teal_transform_module` for transforming the module outputs using the `decorators` argument in the `teal::module` function.

## How to Transform outputs?

Custom trasformations for the output objects can be created with `teal_transform_module` and thus they are `shiny` modules.
They are passed to `teal_module` constructors as arguments (see below).
Their server logic will be used to modify objects such as plots or tables that exist in the server function of a `teal_module`.
A `ui` function can provide interactivity but that is optional, an app developer is free to transform outputs objects of a `teal` module that do not require user input.

### Requirements and Limitations

Transforming `teal` module output requires the following:

1. **Module Support**:<br>
`teal` will apply transformations to `teal_module` outputs, but the module in question must explicitly support this functionality.

> It the responsibility of to the module developer to accept and consume the list of `teal_transform_module`.

Reviewer: It **is** the responsibility

Transforming `teal` module output requires the following:

1. **Module Support**:<br>
`teal` will apply transformations to `teal_module` outputs, but the module in question must explicitly support this functionality.
It is the responsibility of to the module developer to accept and consume the list of `teal_transform_module`.
2. **Matching Object Names**:<br>
Transformations have to reference variables that already exist in the `teal_module` server function and therefore must use the appropriate variable names.
Think of it as extending the plot/table code that already exists in the module.
Module developers are encouraged to provide the relevant names in the module's documentation, otherwise the person writing the output transformation must follow the source code.
3. **Maintaining Object Classes**:<br>
A transformation must not alter the class of the object that it modifies.
This is because a different class may require a different rendering function and that is part of the module structure, which beyond the control of decorators.
If change of this magnitude is required, it is recommended to create a new module.

## Building Output Transformations (Decorators)

> For the sake of simplicity, we will name the output transformers as **decorators** in code examples below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, we will refer to the output transformers as **decorators** in the code examples below.
```

### Server

> Here we create a simple transformator that does not provide user input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we create a simple transformator that does not provide any user input.
```

## Introduction

The outputs produced by `teal` modules, like graphs or tables, are created by the module developer and look a certain way.
It is hard to design an output that will satisfy every possible user, so the form of the output should be considered a default value that can be customized.

> Here we describe the concept of _transforming_, whereby a `teal_transform_module` can modify an output created by a `teal_module`, enabling you to tailor outputs to your specific requirements without rewriting the original module code.
> 
> Note that we use the same mechanism to transform the `teal_data` before it reaches the module, you can read [this vignette](transform-input-data.html) to learn more about this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In [Transform Input Data](transform-input-data.html) we described how `teal_module`'s input data can be modified using `teal_transform_module`. Here we present how to utilize `teal_transform_module` to modify an output created by a `teal_module`, enabling you to tailor outputs to your specific requirements without rewriting the original module code.
```

<img src="images/teal-transform-module-decorators.svg" alt="Transforming teal_data" style="width: 100%;" />

> In this vignette we will focus on using the `teal_transform_module` for transforming the module outputs using the `decorators` argument of the `teal` module function.

Reviewer 2: not needed after applying previous suggestion

## How to Transform outputs?

Custom transformations for the output objects can be created with `teal_transform_module` and thus they are `shiny` modules.
They are passed to `teal_module` constructors as arguments (see below).
Their server logic will be used to modify objects such as plots or tables that exist in the server function of a `teal_module`.
A `ui` function can provide interactivity but that is optional, an app developer is free to transform outputs objects of a `teal` module that do not require user input.

### Requirements and Limitations

Transforming `teal` module output requires the following:

1. **Module Support**:<br>
`teal` will apply transformations to `teal_module` outputs, but the module in question must explicitly support this functionality.
It the responsibility of to the module developer to accept and consume the list of `teal_transform_module`.
2. **Matching Object Names**:<br>

> Transformations will have to reference variables that already exist in the `teal_module` server function and therefore must use the appropriate variable names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transformations have to reference variables that already exist in the `teal_module` server function and therefore must use the appropriate variable names.
```

Think of it as extending the plot/table code that already exists in the module.
Module developers are encouraged to provide the relevant names in the module's documentation, otherwise the person writing the output transformation must follow the source code.
3. **Maintaining Object Classes**:<br>
A transformation must not alter the class of the object that it modifies.
This is because a different class may require a different rendering function and that is part of the module structure, which beyond the control of decorators.
If change of this magnitude is required, it is recommended to create a new module.

> ## Building Output Transformations (Decorators)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building Output Transformations
```

> For the sake of simplicity, we will name the output transformers as **decorators** in code examples below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of simplicity, we will name the output transformers as **decorators** in code examples below.
This name convention is used in [`teal.modules.general` modules](https://insightsengineering.github.io/teal.modules.general/main/articles/customizing-module-output.html). 
```

Author: I have mixed feelings from linking tmg/tmc vignette directly over here. `teal` can be referenced in tmg/tmc but the other way does not make sense. If we change the vignette we need to update the upstream and we might forget about it. I think it's best to not refer this. WDYT @m7pr

Reviewer: alrighty, let's not include this

### UI

> If the transformation requires user input, a `ui` function can be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the transformation requires a user input, a `ui` function can be added.
```

### Variable Names as Arguments

The server function of a transforming `teal_transform_module` must conform to the names of the variables that exist in the server function of the transformed `teal_module`.

> Writing a universal transformer that applies to any module is impossible because different modules may use different variable names for their output elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing a universal transformator that applies to any module is impossible because different modules may use different variable names for their output elements.
```

> It is possible, however, to create a transformer that will take the relevant variable names as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible, however, to create a transformator that will take the relevant variable names as arguments.
```

> Here, the `output_name` variable name is passed to a transformer, allowing it to work with multiple modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the `output_name` variable name is passed to a transformator, allowing it to work with multiple modules.
```

#### Application

> Note that every call to the module constructor (`tm_decorated_plot`) takes a list containing _one_ transformer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that every call to the module constructor (`tm_decorated_plot`) takes a list containing _one_ transformator.
```

## Convenience

> Here we present some ways to work with transformers more conveniently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we present some ways to work with transformators more conveniently.
```

These are purely optional.

### Reducing Boilerplate

The function `make_teal_transform_server` can be used to reduce the amount of boilerplate code when writing new transformers.
It takes `language` as input and requires you to use `input` object names directly in the expression.

> The following calls yield the same transformer module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following calls yield the same transformator module.
```

```

> ### Multiple Transformers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Multiple Transformations
```

> Consider these constructs to accommodate an arbitrary number of transformers in your module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider these constructs to accommodate an arbitrary number of transformators in your module.
```
